In this video, you'll see how
CrateDB's container data
types, objects, and array make
CrateDB a powerful database
for storing and retrieving
document data.
We'll look at the different ways
that an object schema can be
specified in CrateDB, touch on
how CrateDB indexes objects,
and try out some example
queries.
JSON documents are everywhere.
It's a common way of
representing data, with many
programming languages supporting
the format.
Sometimes these documents have a
fixed schema, but it's not
unusual for documents describing
the same sort of data to differ
in their representation of it.
Here we have two JSON documents
describing community areas in
Chicago.
The document on the right has
additional notableresident and
zipcodes components.
notableresident is an object,
zipcodes is an array.
Sometimes we want to create and
enforce a strict schema for
these documents, rejecting those
that don't conform to it.
For example, here we might want
to reject the document for
Norwood Park as it contains
extra data we haven't planned
for.
In other cases, we want the
flexibility to store and query
such semi or unstructured
documents in a single
collection.
How do we store and query these
semi and unstructured data types
in a relational type table?
CrateDB has two container data
types that enable us to model
this sort of data in a flexible
way.
We'll begin by exploring the
object type, then briefly touch
on the second container type,
the array.
Let's explore the different ways
in which we can model objects
with CrateDB using our
community_areas data set.
Here I'm creating a table for
community areas using the
areanumber as an integer primary key
and a text field to store the
area name.
For everything else, I'm going
to use an object named details.
Inside that object, I've
described a schema containing a
TEXT field for description and a
BIGINT field for population.
Note that I've used the STRICT
object policy, which means that
CrateDB will enforce this
schema and reject records that
don't match it.
We'll go ahead and create the
table, and now I'll paste in an
INSERT statement.
What we see here is that we're
inserting a new record into the
table, the area 35.
It's called Douglas.
It has a description and a
population inside its details
object.
And you can see that that object
is expressed as a JSON literal
here in the insert statement.
When I execute this statement,
you'll see that again we get
result OK, this object and this
record were inserted into the
table.
If we try again with a slightly
different version of this where
here I've added a notableresident
sub object that's not
in our table schema.
What we should see when I click
execute is that we get a SQL
error because the column notableresident
isn't allowed inside
the object details.
This is where CrateDB has
enforced that schema and has
rejected this insert.
Let's create an alternative
version of our community_areas
table.
This time I'm using the DYNAMIC
object policy for the details
object.
This is the default in CrateDB.
What this means is that when
CrateDB encounters fields
that are in the details object
that are not in the schema, it
will add them anyway and infer
the appropriate data type.
Let's create the table and now
let's paste in a community area.
In this version of the Douglas
community area, I have that
extra notableresident object
that was not mentioned in the
schema.
When we run this query, it will
run and execute without error.
So let's see what the state of
the table looks like now.
If we run the show CREATE
TABLE community_areas command,
you'll see that there is a
schema down here and this schema
now contains notableresidentobject
with field name and
description that have been
inferred as TEXT.
In this way, CrateDB has
accepted a dynamic object,
modified the schema accordingly
and will index all of these
values for us.
The final policy to look at is
IGNORED.
Here I'm creating a third
version of the communityareas
table, and my details object is
specified as OBJECT(IGNORED).
This means that CrateDB will
accept fields that are not
specified in the schema, but it
won't index these.
This means that we can store
objects that have different
shapes inside this object, and
we'll see what that means
shortly.
Let's first create the table and
paste in an example record here
for the community_areas, Douglas,
we have an object containing
notableresident, which wasn't
part of the schema.
And note that that itself has
some structure inside there.
There's an address sub object,
so let's create that and that
worked.
Now what we're going to do is
add a second record that has a
slightly different structure
from the 1st.
I'm going to add a record for a
neighbourhood called Norwood
Park, and here it is.
In this case we also have this
notable resident object that
wasn't part of our object
schema, but now inside that the
address is a string.
It's no longer another object
like it was in the previous
record.
We execute this, CrateDB stores
that, and what's happened here
is that the notableresident subobject
and anything inside it
has been stored and can be
queried, but hasn't been
indexed.
This means that when we run a
query such as this one, you can
see that we get back different
versions of the address because
each record that we inserted had
a different data type there.
In one case it was a string, in
the other case it's an object.
The other container data type in
CrateDB is an array.
This is a container for other
data types, including objects.
Here I'm creating another
version of the community_areas
table, and inside my details
object I've chosen to model an
array of zip codes as text.
Let's create the table and let's
look at an example record.
Here I'm inserting a record for
Norwood Park which now has an
array of zip codes containing 3
text strings.
Let's create that.
Now how do we query these?
If we take a look at this SELECT
query here, what we see is that
there is a Python like syntax
for slicing arrays.
So here I'm asking CrateDB to
select the first two entries in
the zip codes array from the
details object in the field zip
codes where the area number is
10, which is Norwood Park.
Let's go ahead and run that and
you'll see that we get an array
response containing those first
2 zip codes.
Now you've seen how CrateDB can
store and query JSON data using
the object and array data types.
As the next step, I'd encourage
you to experiment with the
different object policies and
try queries against the sample
data set in your CrateDB
cluster.